-   Back to Top

Self-Consciousness

First published Thu Jul 13, 2017; substantive revision Fri Jun 14, 2024
---------------
themselves: their activities, their bodies, and their mental lives. They
are, that is, self-conscious (or, equivalently, self-aware).
Self-consciousness can be understood as an awareness of oneself. But a
self-conscious subject is not just aware of something that merely
happens to be themselves, as one is if one sees an old photograph
without realising that it is of oneself. Rather a self-conscious subject
is aware of themselves as themselves; it is manifest to them that they
themselves are the object of awareness. Self-consciousness is a form of
consciousness that is paradigmatically expressed in English by the words
“I”, “me”, and “my”, terms that each of us uses to refer to ourselves as
such.
---------------
A central topic throughout the history of philosophy—and increasingly so
since the seventeenth century—the phenomena surrounding
self-consciousness prompt a variety of fundamental philosophical and
scientific questions, including its relation to consciousness; its
semantic and epistemic features; its realisation in both conceptual and
non-conceptual representation; and its connection to our conception of
an objective world populated with others like ourselves.

-   1. Self-Consciousness in the History of Philosophy
    -   1.1 Ancient and Medieval Discussions of Self-Consciousness
    -   1.2 Early Modern Discussions of Self-Consciousness
    -   1.3 Kantian and Post-Kantian Discussions of Self-Consciousness
    -   1.4 Early Twentieth Century Discussions of Self-Consciousness
-   2. Self-Consciousness in Thought
    -   2.1 The Essential Indexical
        -   Supplement: Scepticism About Essential Indexicality and
---------------
        -   Supplement: The Scope of Immunity to Error Through
            Misidentification
-   3. Self-Consciousness in Experience
    -   3.1 Consciousness of the Self
    -   3.2 Pre-Reflective Self-Consciousness
    -   3.3 The Sense of Ownership
-   4. The Conditions of Self-Consciousness
    -   4.1 Self-Consciousness and Personhood
    -   4.2 Self-Consciousness and Rationality
    -   4.3 Self-Consciousness and Consciousness
    -   4.4 Self-Consciousness and Intersubjectivity
-   5. Self-Consciousness in Infants and Non-Human Animals
    -   5.1 Mirror Recognition
    -   5.2 Episodic Memory
---------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Self-Consciousness in the History of Philosophy

A familiar feature of ancient Greek philosophy and culture is the
---------------
thinking that the son of Laius and Jocasta was prophesied to kill Laius,
to thinking that he himself was so prophesied. It is only this latter
knowledge that we would call an expression of self-consciousness and
that, we may presume, is the object of the Delphic maxim. During the
course of the drama Oedipus comes to know himself, with tragic
consequences. But just what this self-consciousness amounts to, and how
it might be connected to other aspects of the mind, most notably
consciousness itself, is less clear. It has, perhaps unsurprisingly,
been the topic of considerable discussion since the Greeks. During the
early modern period self-consciousness became central to a number of
philosophical issues and, with Kant and the post-Kantians, came to be
seen as one of the most important topics in epistemology and the
philosophy of mind.

1.1 Ancient and Medieval Discussions of Self-Consciousness

Although it is occasionally suggested that a concern with
self-consciousness is a peculiarly modern phenomenon, originating with
Descartes (Brinkmann 2005), it is in fact the topic of lively ancient
and medieval debates, many of which prefigure early modern and
---------------
that a person must, while perceiving any thing, also perceive their own
existence (De Sensu 7.448a), a claim suggestive of the view that
consciousness entails self-consciousness. Furthermore, according to
Aristotle, since the intellect takes on the form of that which is
thought (Kahn 1992), it “is thinkable just as the thought-objects are”
---------------
is no self-awareness without embodiment (Ram-Prasad 2013). There were,
therefore, wide-ranging debates in the ancient and medieval period not
only about the nature of self-consciousness, but also about its relation
to other aspects of the mind, most notably sensory perception and
awareness of the body.

1.2 Early Modern Discussions of Self-Consciousness

Central to the early modern discussion of self-consciousness are
Descartes’ assertions, in the second of his Meditations, that “I am, I
exist, is necessarily true whenever it is put forward by me or conceived
---------------
(Descartes 1637: 36, and Descartes 1644: 162; see the discussion of
Reflection in the entry on seventeenth century theories of
consciousness). The cogito, which was anticipated by Augustine (On the
Trinity 10.10; Pasnau 2002: ch. 11), embodies two elements of
self-awareness—awareness that one is thinking and awareness that one
---------------

A similar claim can be found in Berkeley’s Three Dialogues (1713:
231–234; Stoneham 2002: §6.4). Further, Locke makes self-consciousness
partly definitive of the very concept of a person, a person being “a
thinking intelligent Being, that has reason and reflection, and can
consider it self as it self, the same thinking thing in different times
and places” (1700: II. xxvii.9; Ayers 1991: vol.II, ch.23; Thiel 2011:
ch. 4), and self-consciousness also plays an important role in his
theory of personal identity (see §4.1).

---------------
accordance with his empiricist account of concept acquisition, lack an
idea of such. It is clear, then, that in the early modern period issues
of self-consciousness play an important role in a variety of
philosophical questions regarding persons and their minds.

1.3 Kantian and Post-Kantian Discussions of Self-Consciousness

Hume’s denial that there is an inner perception of the self as the owner
---------------
is no intuition of the self “through which it is given as object” (Kant
1781/1787: B408; Brook 1994; Ameriks 1982 [2000]). Kant’s account of
self-consciousness and its significance is complex, a central element of
the Transcendental Deduction being the claim that a form of
self-awareness—transcendental apperception—is required to account for
---------------
think’ must be able to accompany all my representations” (Kant
1781/1787: B132; Keller 1998; Kitcher 2011; see the entry on Kant’s view
of the mind and consciousness of self). Thus, while Kant denies that
there is an inner awareness of the self as an object that owns its
experiences, we must nevertheless be aware of those experiences as
---------------
Further, a philosophical tradition stemming from Kant’s work has tried
to identify the necessary conditions of the possibility of
self-consciousness, with P.F. Strawson (1959, 1966), Evans (1980, 1982),
and Cassam (1997), for example, exploring the relation between the
capacity for self-conscious thought and the possession of a conception
---------------
§4.3). Another, related tradition has argued that an awareness of
subjects other than oneself is a necessary condition of
self-consciousness (see §4.4). Historical variations on such a view can
be found in Fichte (1794–1795; Wood 2006), Hegel (1807; Pippin 2010),
and, from a somewhat different perspective, Mead (1934; Aboulafia 1986).

Fichte offers the most influential account of self-consciousness in the
post-Kantian tradition. On the reading of the “Heidelberg School”,
Fichte claims that previous accounts of self-consciousness given by
Descartes, Locke, and even Kant are “reflective”, regarding the self as
taking itself not as subject but as object (Henrich 1967; Tugendhat
---------------
posits its own existence by virtue of merely existing” (Fichte
1794–1795: 97). Once more, this debate echoes ancient discussions
concerning the nature and role of self-consciousness.

1.4 Early Twentieth Century Discussions of Self-Consciousness

In the early twentieth century, Frege suggests a form of
---------------
(1937; Priest 2000) takes Husserl’s later view to task, arguing against
the view that we are continually aware of a transcendental ego, yet in
favour of the picture of consciousness as involving a “pre-reflective”
awareness of itself reminiscent of the Heidelberg School view (Wider
1997: ch. 3; Miguens, Preyer, & Morando 2016). Questions about the
nature of self-consciousness and, in particular, over whether there is
an immediate, or intuitive, consciousness of the self, were as lively as
ever well into the twentieth century.

2. Self-Consciousness in Thought

One natural way to think of self-consciousness is in terms of a
subject’s capacity to entertain conscious thought about herself.
Self-conscious thoughts are thoughts about oneself. But it is commonly
pointed out that thinking about what merely happens to be oneself is
insufficient for self-consciousness, rather one must think of oneself as
oneself. If one is capable of self-conscious thought, that is, one must
be able to think in such a way that it is manifest to one that it is
---------------

It is widely recognised that the paradigmatic linguistic expression of
self-consciousness in English is the first-person pronoun “I”; a term
with which one might be said to refer to oneself as oneself (Sainsbury
2011). Plausibly, every utterance of a sentence containing “I” is
expressive of a self-conscious “I-thought”, that is a thought containing
the first-person concept. Thus, discussions of self-consciousness are
often closely associated with accounts of the semantics of the indexical
term “I” and the nature of its counterpart first-person concept (e.g.,
---------------
realises that it is herself that she believes to be F. That is, there is
a reading of “Jane believes that she is F” that does not imply
self-consciousness on Jane’s part. But, in some cases, we do intend to
attribute self-consciousness with that same form of words. To resolve
this ambiguity, Castañeda introduces “she*” for self-conscious
attributions. I will use the more natural indirect reflexive “she
---------------
or, in his terminology, de se. On this account, every belief involves
the self-ascription of a property and so, arguably, is an instance of
self-consciousness (for discussion, Gennaro 1996: ch. 8; Stalnaker 2008:
ch. 3; Feit 2008; Cappelen & Dever 2013: ch. 5; Magidor 2015; Jackson &
Stoljar 2020).
---------------
Lewis, see Millikan 1990; Magidor 2015). A central element in their
critique is the claim that cases, such as Perry’s shopper, that are
often thought to show the special connection between self-consciousness
(I-thoughts) and the capacity for action really only show that action
explanation contexts do not allow for substitution salva veritate, but
---------------
will only stop when I believe that I am that shopper. On their view,
despite the popularity of the view to the contrary, the capacity for
self-consciousness does not possess any philosophically deep relation to
the capacity for action. See the supplement: Scepticism About Essential
Indexicality and Agency.
---------------
produced, the fact that “I” refers to its producer means that there is
no chance of its failing to pick out some entity. This account of “I”,
then, treats it as not only expressive of self-consciousness, but also
guaranteed to refer to the utterer.

---------------
actions to others, but “A” when describing their own actions (Anscombe
1975: 49). Anscombe argues that such a situation is compatible with the
possibility that the people in question lack self-consciousness. Whilst
B uses “A” to refer to B, C uses “A” to refer to C, and so on, there is
no guarantee that they are thinking of themselves as themselves, for
---------------

Can the Self-Reference Rule be reformulated in such a way as to entail
self-consciousness on the part of those who use terms that comply with
it? According to Anscombe it can, but any such reformulation will
presuppose a prior grasp of self-conscious reference to oneself. For
---------------
the first-person formulation of such a rule: “I” is a term that I use to
refer to myself. For here the “myself” must itself be understood as an
expression of self-consciousness, i.e., we should really say that “I” is
a term that I use to refer to myself as myself.

In response to Anscombe’s argument, it has been argued that SRR is not
intended to explain the connection between self-consciousness and the
first-person (O’Brien 1994, 1995a; Garrett 1998: ch. 7; cf. Campbell
1994: §4.2; Peacocke 2008: §3.1). On this view, all that the example of
“A” users shows is that self-consciousness has not been fully accounted
for by SRR, not that SRR fails as an account of the character of “I”.
Kaplan himself, however, does appear to be more ambitious than this,
---------------
an alternative broadly functional account, see Mellor 1989; for an
argument that, far from being amenable to a functional analysis,
self-consciousness poses a threat to the coherence of functionalism, see
Bealer 1997). Once we see how both “I”-Ideas and “here”-Ideas stand at
the centre of distinctive networks of inputs (ways of gaining
---------------
a pain, then that pain must be one’s own. Immunity to errors of this
sort has been taken, by a number of philosophers, to be importantly
connected to self-consciousness.

Under the influence of Shoemaker (1968) this phenomenon has become known
---------------
have first-personal content. And that, according to some philosophers,
is to determine which forms of experience are themselves forms of
self-consciousness (see, for example, Bermúdez 1998: 144). This issue is
further discussed in §3.

---------------
the non-referential character of “I”.

3. Self-Consciousness in Experience

Some philosophers maintain that, in addition to its manifestation in
first-personal thinking, self-consciousness is also present in various
forms of sensory and non-sensory experience (Bermúdez 1998; Hurley 1998:
ch. 4; Zahavi 2005; Peacocke 2014; Musholt 2015). After all,
self-consciousness is presumably a form of consciousness (see entry on
consciousness). On the view that experience, like thought, has
representational content, this can be understood as the view that
experiences, like thoughts, can have content that is first-personal. On
---------------
Bermúdez 2003).

The claim that there is a form of self-consciousness in experience, one
which arguably grounds the capacity to entertain first-personal thought,
can be understood in a number of ways. According to one view there is a
perceptual, or quasi-perceptual, consciousness of the self as an object
of experience. On another, there is a “pre-reflective” form of
self-consciousness that does not involve the awareness of the self as an
object. A third claims that various forms of experience involve a
distinctive “sense of ownership” in which each of us is aware of our own
---------------
misidentification.

3.1 Consciousness of the Self

It is natural to suppose that self-consciousness is, fundamentally, a
conscious awareness of the self. On such a view, one is self-conscious
if, when one introspects, one is aware of a thing that is, in some
---------------
As with first-person thought, the issue is not whether one is, or can
be, conscious of what is in fact oneself. If that were sufficient for
self-consciousness then, on the supposition that one is identical to
one’s body, seeing oneself in a mirror would be a case of
self-consciousness, even if one were unaware that it was oneself that
one saw. Rather, the issue is whether one is, or can be, conscious of
oneself as oneself, a form of awareness in which it is manifest to one
---------------
ground certain cases of self-knowledge, first-person reference, and the
immunity to error of certain first-person thoughts (Shoemaker 1986; see
the entry on self-knowledge). The inner consciousness of the self as F,
for example, would account for one’s capacity to refer to oneself as
oneself, one’s knowledge that one is F, and the fact that such a thought
---------------
different, imagination-based, argument against bodily awareness as a
form of self-awareness, see Smith 2006b; see Bermúdez 2011 for a
response; for discussions of the relation between self-consciousness and
imagination see B. Williams 1973; Reynolds 1989; Velleman 1996).

---------------
Skrzypulec 2023).

3.2 Pre-Reflective Self-Consciousness

If first-person thought is not grounded in an awareness of the self as
---------------
the capacity to entertain self-conscious thought (O’Brien 1995a). One
suggestion is that subjects possess a form of “pre-reflective
self-awareness” as a necessary condition of consciousness (Sartre 1937,
1943: Introduction; Zahavi 2005, 2007; Legrand 2006; cf. Kriegel 2009;
Borner, Frank & Williford 2019; Howell 2023, Ch.5. For criticism, see
Schear 2009; also see the entry on phenomenological approaches to
self-consciousness). On this view, all conscious experience involves an
implicit awareness of oneself as its subject without explicitly
representing the self as an object of awareness (cf. Musholt’s
distinction between “self-representationalist” and
“non-self-representationalist” accounts of non-conceptual
self-consciousness (2015: chs. 3–4)). Indeed, it might be argued that
the necessity of an active agent’s possessing some form of
self-awareness follows from the connection between action and
self-consciousness that many suppose to have been established by
considerations of the essential indexical discussed in §2.1 (cf.
Bermúdez 1998).

These views are closely associated with theories that explain
consciousness in terms of self-consciousness (§4.3). Pre-reflective
self-awareness is “pre-reflective”, according to its proponents, in the
sense that it does not require one to explicitly reflect on one’s own
---------------
situations in which one’s attention is directed outwards toward worldly
objects and events. Pre-reflective self-awareness, then, is implicit in
all consciousness, providing one with a continuous awareness of oneself
as the subject of one’s stream of experience.

One way in which such views can be understood is as maintaining that
experience involves self-consciousness in the mode, rather than the
content, of conscious experience (Recanati 2007: part 5; 2012; O’Brien
2007: ch. 6). This can be fleshed out by analogy with the case of
---------------
undergoing that experience.

Accounts of self-consciousness as involving unarticulated constituents,
or as implicit in the mode of consciousness, will need to explain how
the transition is made from such implicit self-awareness to the explicit
representation of the self in first-person thought. One option is to
---------------
3.3 The Sense of Ownership

Pre-reflective, or implicit, accounts of the place of self-consciousness
in experience are often associated with the so-called “sense of
ownership”, or “sense of mineness” (Flanagan 1992; Martin 1995; Dokic
---------------
cf. P.F. Strawson’s 1959: ch. 3, attack on the “no-ownership” view).

Even within the context of an implicit account of self-consciousness in
experience, we can further distinguish between reductive and
non-reductive construals of the sense of ownership (Bermúdez 2011;
---------------

It is sometimes claimed that the variety of ways in which
self-consciousness can break down poses a challenge to the claim that
the sense of ownership is a universal characteristic of experience
(e.g., Metzinger 2003: §7.2.2). Thought insertion, anarchic hand, alien
---------------
the supplement: The Scope of Immunity to Error Through
Misidentification). It has also been claimed that the sense of
ownership, along with other aspects of self-consciousness, is degraded
in both certain meditative practices (Letheby & Gerrans 2017; Millière
2017; Millière et. al. 2018) and psychedelic experience (Millière et.
---------------
are aware of the thoughts of other people or objects entering their own
minds (see, for example, Saks 2007: ch. 2; for general discussion of
schizophrenia and self-consciousness see Parnas & Sass 2011). On the
assumption that such subjects are actually aware of what are, in fact,
their own thoughts, this might seem to be a case of a conscious
---------------
Fernández 2013: ch. 5; Billon 2013).

4. The Conditions of Self-Consciousness

Much of the philosophical work on self-consciousness concerns its
relation to a variety of other phenomena. These include the nature of
personhood, rationality, consciousness, and the awareness of other
minds. In each case we can ask whether self-consciousness is a necessary
and/or sufficient condition for the phenomenon in question.

4.1 Self-Consciousness and Personhood

As was mentioned in §1.2, Locke characterises a person as “a thinking
intelligent Being, that has reason and reflection, and can consider it
self as it self, the same thinking thing in different times and places”
(1700: II.xxvii.9). On such a view, self-consciousness is essential to
personhood. In particular, on Locke’s view it is the capacity to
reidentify oneself at different times that is important, a claim which
---------------
identity). As such, Locke considers the capacity for self-conscious
thinking to be a necessary condition of personhood. What is less clear
is whether, on this view, self-consciousness is sufficient for
personhood. One reason for doubt on this score is that since it is
concerned with self-conscious thought the account provides no reason to
suppose that creatures that enjoy non-conceptual self-consciousness are
persons. A second is that the requirement of being able to reidentify
oneself over time is not one that we need consider met by all
---------------

An alternative conception of personhood that also gives a central role
to self-consciousness can be found in Frankfurt’s claim that it is
essential to persons to have a capacity for reflective self-evaluation
manifested in the possession of what he calls “second-order volitions”
---------------

An account of persons that would appear to distance that notion from
self-consciousness is that offered by P.F. Strawson in chapter 3 of
Individuals,

  the concept of a person is the concept of a type of entity such that
  both predicates ascribing states of consciousness and predicates
  ascribing corporeal characteristics, a physical situation &c. are
  equally applicable to a single individual of that type. (1959:
---------------
Cartesian dualism and, on the other, with what he calls the
“no-ownership view”: a view according to which we don’t really
self-ascribe states of consciousness at all, at least not with the use
of “I” as subject (cf. Wittgenstein 1953: §244; 1958: 76; Anscombe 1975;
it is controversial whether Wittgenstein ever really held this view, for
---------------
persons are not to be thought of as compounds of subjects and bodies.
Strawson argues that the primitiveness of the concept of a person is a
necessary condition of the possibility of self-consciousness (P.F.
Strawson 1959: 98–103). His argument is that one can only self-ascribe
states of consciousness if one is able to ascribe them to others (for
more on this theme see §4.4). This rules out Cartesian dualism, since
ascribing states of consciousness to others requires that one be able to
identify others, and one cannot identify pure subjects of experience or
Cartesian egos. The condition that one must be able to ascribe states of
consciousness to others also rules out the “no-ownership view” because
such a view is inconsistent with the fact that psychological predicates
have the very same sense in their first and third person uses.
---------------
related to that of Partfit). As is the case with the “no-ownership view”
it has sometimes been argued that reductionism is incompatible with
self-consciousness so, since we are indisputably self-conscious,
reductionism must be false. Against the claim that the (continued)
existence of a person consists merely in the (continued) existence of
brain, body, and interrelated physical and mental events that do not
presuppose anything about persons as such, McDowell (1997) for example,
argues from a broadly Evansian position on self-consciousness (see the
supplement: Evans on First Person Thought) that there simply are no such
“identity-free relations” (1997: 378) to which a person’s identity could
---------------
it,

  [i]n continuity of “consciousness”, there is what appears to be
  knowledge of an identity, the persistence of the same subject through
  time. (1997: 361)
---------------
Memory, at least, cannot be employed in a reductive account of persons
(for discussion of McDowell’s argument see Buford 2009; Fernández 2014;
for related arguments from self-consciousness to the falsity of
reductionism, see Cassam 1997: ch. 5).

4.2 Self-Consciousness and Rationality

Is self-consciousness a necessary condition of rationality? A number of
philosophers have argued that rationality requires self-knowledge which
itself implies self-consciousness (see Shoemaker 1988, 1994; Burge 1996;
Moran 2001; Bilgrami 2006; Boyle 2009, 2011; for a general discussion of
this approach to self-knowledge, see Gertler 2011: ch. 6). In his case
---------------

The connection between rationality and self-knowledge (and so
self-consciousness), Shoemaker argues, is even more pronounced in the
case of our awareness of our own beliefs. Rational subjects should abide
by certain strictures on the contents of their beliefs, updating them in
---------------
and how to feel (Moran 2001: ch. 2). Here the focus is not so much on
critical reasoning but rather practical deliberation as that which
requires self-consciousness. This is an idea that is also central to
much of Korsgaard’s work (see, in particular, Korsgaard 1996, 2009). A
central concern of hers is to distinguish between the sort of action of
---------------
  desire to act upon. (Korsgaard 1996: 100)

Self-consciousness, on this view,

  is the source of reason. When we become conscious of the workings of
---------------
  a necessity but as a proposal, something we need to make a decision
  about. (Korsgaard 2009: 119; for discussion of Korsgaard’s account of
  the relation between self-consciousness and the perspective of
  practical reason, see, for example, Nagel 1996; Fitzpatrick 2005;
  Soteriou 2013: ch. 12).
---------------
deliberation). Burge also makes it clear that he regards the capacity
for critical reasoning to be a necessary condition of (conceptual)
self-consciousness, since to master and self-ascribe psychological
concepts such as belief, one must be able to recognise their role in
reasoning, and so employ them (Burge 1996: 97, n.3). As he puts it,
---------------

The claim that there is a constitutive connection between
self-consciousness and rationality has been met with scepticism by
Kornblith (2011, 2012: ch. 2; for a related line of thought, see Doris
2015: ch. 2). Regarding the sort of responsiveness to reason involved in
---------------
exercises in rational investigation. On this view, whilst non-reflective
creatures may have some degree of rationality, their lack of
self-consciousness means that they are not, as we are, capable of fully
rational deliberation (for discussion of Kornblith’s scepticism
concerning the role of self-consciousness in rationality, see Pust 2014;
M. Williams 2015; Smithies 2016).

4.3 Self-Consciousness and Consciousness

Central to the history of the self-consciousness sketched in §1 is a
concern with the relation between self-consciousness and consciousness.
Since self-consciousness is itself a form of consciousness,
consciousness is, of course, a necessary condition of it. But is
self-consciousness necessary for consciousness? Positive answers to this
question come in both reductive and non-reductive varieties.

One way in which consciousness might entail self-consciousness is if the
former is reducible to the latter. One such family of views are higher
order theories of consciousness which maintain that a psychological
state is conscious if and only if it is represented, in the right way,
by a higher order state (Gennaro 2004; for a very different account that
nevertheless posits a tight connection between consciousness and
self-consciousness, see O’Shaughnessy 2002: ch. 3). A natural assumption
is that this higher order state is distinct from that which it
represents. Higher Order theories that accept this assumption fall into
---------------
first-order state. That is, one represents oneself as being in the state
in question. Since this seems to involve a form of self-awareness, the
HOT and HOP theories can be understood as holding that consciousness
entails self-consciousness (Gennaro 1996). Given this, it is natural to
think of the distinction between HOT and HOP theories of consciousness
as closely related to that between conceptual and non-conceptual
self-consciousness.

An alternative to HOT and HOP theories that still maintains the ambition
to reduce consciousness to self-consciousness is the
self-representational view (Kriegel & Williford 2006; Kriegel 2009;
Caston 2002), according to which a psychological state is conscious if
---------------
that deny that the first and second-order states are distinct. As with
both HOT and HOP, self-representationalism can be thought of as
supporting the view that a form of self-consciousness is a necessary
condition of consciousness. Kriegel (2003) dubs this “intransitive
self-consciousness”, the phenomenon purportedly picked out by phrases of
the form “I am self-consciously thinking that P”, and distinguishes it
from the “transitive self-consciousness” purportedly picked out by
phrases of the form “I am self-conscious of my thought that P”. This is
a version of the distinction between reflective and pre-reflective
self-consciousness discussed in §3.2 (and the views of Fichte and Sartre
mentioned in §1; cf. Kapitan 1999). If conscious states are those that
represent themselves then, it might be argued, consciousness entails
intransitive self-consciousness, since one’s conscious states do not
only represent themselves but also (in some way implicitly) represent
oneself as having them (Kriegel 2003: 104).
---------------
every conscious state leads to an unnecessarily “cluttered picture of
the mind” (Chalmers 1996: 231), and the fundamental worry that no form
of higher-order view has the resources to explain consciousness at all
(Levine 2006; cf. Kriegel 2012). As such, higher-order and
self-representational theories of consciousness, that posit a necessary
connection between consciousness and self-consciousness, are far from
being established.

If consciousness cannot be reduced to self-consciousness, perhaps the
latter is nevertheless a necessary condition of the former. Some
non-reductive views, already mentioned, see pre-reflective consciousness
(see §3.2), or the sense of ownership (see §3.3) as necessary conditions
of consciousness (see Zahavi 2005). A different non-reductive, and
broadly Kantian, argument for the claim that self-consciousness is a
necessary condition of consciousness first of all claims that conscious
experience is necessarily unified and, second, that this unity of
consciousness in turn depends on self-awareness. Of primary interest
here is the second step which is articulated by Strawson in his
discussion of Kant’s transcendental deduction as the claim that,

  if different experiences are to belong to a single consciousness,
  there must be the possibility of self­-consciousness on the part of the
  subject of those experiences. (P.F. Strawson 1966: 93; for discussion
  of Kant’s views of the matter, see Henrich 1989; Powell 1990; Brook
  1994; Keller 1998; Kitcher 2011; Allison 2015; for detailed discussion
  of whether consciousness is necessarily unified, see Bayne 2010; see
  also entry on unity of consciousness).

One reason for supposing that there is a connection between
self-consciousness and the unity of consciousness is given by Kant, who
writes,

  only because I can comprehend their manifold in a consciousness do I
  call them altogether my representations; for otherwise I would have as
  multi-coloured diverse a self as I have representations of which I am
---------------
That is, a single self must be able to “comprehend” its own experiences
together, otherwise they would not really be its own. Such
“comprehension” would seem to involve self-consciousness. As Kant
famously puts it,

---------------
On this view, it is the unity of the self that guarantees that
co-conscious experiences are jointly self-ascribable; that unity
requires self-consciousness (there is a question as to whether
self-consciousness is here supposed to explain the unity of
consciousness; cf. Dainton’s strong and weak “I-thesis” (2000: §2.3)).
This Kantian picture is associated with the claim that unified
self-consciousness requires a conception of the world as objective; as
transcending the perspective that one has on it. The idea here is that
to self-ascribe an experience one must have some grasp of the
---------------
also see Burge 2010: ch. 6; Gomes 2016 and 2024).

The claim that the unity of consciousness requires self-consciousness
can be criticised in a number of different ways. How one evaluates the
claim will depend on whether one has conceptual or non-conceptual
self-consciousness in mind. As Bayne (2004) points out, the claim that
the unity of consciousness requires that one possess the concept of
oneself seems, implausibly, to imply that conceptually unsophisticated
infants and non-human animals could not possess a unified stream of
consciousness (of course, this worry applies quite generally to views
that connect consciousness with self-consciousness). The view that
non-conceptual self-consciousness is a necessary condition of the unity
of consciousness would appear to be vulnerable to the objection that it
implausibly rules out the possibility of cases such as Anscombe’s (1975)
subject in a sensory deprivation tank, a case in which the forms of
experience typically classed as forms of non-conceptual
self-consciousness are lacking (for related cases see Bayne 2004; also
see G. Strawson 1999). A different worry about the connection between
self-consciousness and the unity of consciousness is the “just more
content” objection (B. Williams 1978: ch. 3; Hurley 1994; and 1998 Part
I). The concern is addressed to the view that self-consciousness is not
merely a necessary condition of the unity of consciousness but is that
in virtue of which it is unified. For if the self-ascription of
experiences is taken to be that which is responsible for the unity of
consciousness, how can we account for the fact that the self-conscious
thoughts are themselves unified with the first-order experiences that
they supposedly unify? As Hurley puts it,

  self-conscious or first-person contents […] are just more contents, to
  which the problem of co-consciousness [i.e., the unity of
  consciousness] also applies (1998: 61)

To appeal to the third-order self-ascription of the self-conscious
thought would appear to invite a regress.

4.4 Self-Consciousness and Intersubjectivity

What is the connection between self-consciousness and the awareness of
others? On some views self-consciousness requires awareness of others,
on another view the awareness of others requires self-consciousness. In
each case we can distinguish between those accounts according to which
such awareness is merely an empirical condition from those according to
---------------
Nichols & Stich 2003). While such views accord no priority to the
first-person case, they may see a tight connection between
self-consciousness and our capacity to think about others: these are
simply two aspects of the more general capacity to think about the mind.
A distinct, though related, family of views see both self-consciousness
and awareness of others as emerging from a primitive “adualist” state in
which self and other are not distinguished (Piaget 1937; Merleau-Ponty
---------------
Chater 2005; Eilan et al. 2005; Legerstee 2005; Reddy 2008). One
empirical proposal is that it is from this early form of social
interaction and capacity to understand others that self-consciousness
emerges as a self-directed form of mindreading (Carruthers 2011;
Carruthers, Fletcher, & Ritchie 2012; for an early such account, see
---------------

A more ambitious version of this approach to the relationship between
self-consciousness and awareness of others, prioritizing the awareness
of others, is to argue that knowledge of other minds is a necessary
condition of the possibility of self-consciousness. Well known examples
of such arguments can be found in the work of P.F. Strawson (1959: ch.
3) and Davidson (1991; for the related Hegelian view that various forms
of self-consciousness depend on intersubjective recognition, see Honneth
1995; also Sartre’s 1943, Part 3, Ch.1, view that awareness of oneself
as an object is mediated by the ‘look’ of the other). Since knowledge of
other minds is typically considered to be open to sceptical doubt, and
self-consciousness is not, such lines of reasoning can be thought of as
transcendental arguments and so potentially open to general criticisms
of that form of argument (Stroud 1968; R. Stern 1999, 2000; see the
---------------

Davidson’s transcendental argument—the triangulation argument—connects
self-consciousness, knowledge of other minds, and knowledge of the
external world. At its heart is the claim that for my thoughts to have
determinate content there must exist another subject who is able to
---------------
Verheggen 2016).

5. Self-Consciousness in Infants and Non-Human Animals

At what age can human infants be credited with self-consciousness? Is
self-consciousness present beyond homo sapiens? Some theorists, for
example Bermúdez (1998), claim that various forms of perceptual
experience constitute a non-conceptual form of self-consciousness (see
§3). Others, for example Rosenthal (2005), claim that phenomenal
consciousness entails self-consciousness. If either view is correct then
self-consciousness, of some kind, can plausibly be attributed to
creatures other than adult humans. But when it comes to more
sophisticated forms of self-awareness, matters are less clear. What is
---------------
unable to provide evidence via their use of the first-person pronoun.
Such evidence, if available, may reasonably be thought to shed light on
both the phylogenetic and ontogenetic development of self-consciousness
(Ferrari & Sternberg 1998; Terrace & Metcalfe 2005; see the entries on
animal consciousness and animal cognition).

5.1 Mirror Recognition
---------------
It has sometimes been claimed, most forcefully by Gallup and colleagues,
that the capacity to recognise oneself in the mirror is a marker of
self-consciousness (Gallup 1970; Gallup, Anderson, & Platek 2011;
Gallup, Platek, & Spaulding 2014; Gallup & Anderson 2020). It is easy to
see why this might seem to be so since, if first-person thought involves
---------------

It is not universally accepted, however, that success in the mirror test
is an indication of self-consciousness. For example, Heyes (1994)
presents an influential critique of the claim that it is a marker of
self-awareness, arguing that all that is required for success is that
---------------
of incoming sensory data, on the other. Such a view, however, needs to
explain why it is that passing the mirror test seems to be connected
with the phenomena arguably associated with self-consciousness, such as
experiencing shame and embarrassment (M. Lewis 2011). There remains,
then, significant controversy concerning what success in the mirror test
---------------
5.2 Episodic Memory

Another potential marker of self-consciousness is episodic memory, the
capacity that we have to recollect particular episodes from our own past
experience (see Tulving 1983; Michaelian 2016; entry on memory). As
---------------
has a future oriented dimension in expectation, planning, and so on; see
Michaelian, Klein, & Szpunar 2016). The connection between memory and
self-consciousness is one that is often made (see §2.3, §3, and §4.1).
If it is correct that episodic memory essentially involves a form of
self-consciousness, and we are able to test for the presence of episodic
memory in non-linguistic infants and animals, then we have a way of
detecting the presence of self-conscious abilities. Since, however,
episodic memory is not the only form of self-consciousness, the lack of
it does not indicate that a creature is not self-aware. Indeed, the much
discussed case of K.C. seems to be one in which, due to an accident,
---------------
possess non-episodic forms of memory such as semantic memory
(remembering that such and such is the case), they lack the “autonoetic”
consciousness of themselves projected either back or forwards in time.
For example whilst most 3 year old infants can remember presented
information, most are unreliable when it comes to the question of how
---------------
non-episodic, semantic memory often involves the retention of “what,
where, when” information. Due to the difficulties in finding a
behavioural test for “autonoetic” consciousness, it is often, though not
universally, claimed that there is no compelling evidence for episodic
memory, and thus this particular form of self-consciousness, in
non-human animals (Tulving 2005; Suddendorf & Corballis 2007; Michaelian
2016: ch. 2; for discussion relating to apes, see Menzel 2005; Schwartz
---------------

Another body of research pertaining to the question of
self-consciousness in infants and non-human animals is the work on
metacognition (and metamemory). The term “metacognition” typically
refers to the capacity to monitor and control one’s own cognitive
---------------

The view that success on metacognitive opt-out tests is indicative of
self-consciousness is not uncontroversial, however. For example, it has
been suggested that the uncertainty response is indicative not of
metacognitive uncertainty monitoring but rather of first-order,
---------------
Carruthers 2008; Kornell 2014; Musholt 2015: ch. 7). On such an
interpretation, the research on metacognition does not provide
compelling evidence regarding self-consciousness in infants and
non-human animals (but for critical discussion see J.D. Smith 2005; J.D.
Smith, Couchman, & Beran 2014; also relevant is the distinction between
“evaluativist” and “attributivist” accounts of metacognition outlined by
Proust (2013)). The question of the significance of opt-out tests for
attributions of self-consciousness remains controversial.

Bibliography
---------------
    Review of Philosophy and Psychology, 6(4): 881–896.
-   Alter, Torin, 2010, “A Defense of the Necessary Unity of Phenomenal
    Consciousness”, Pacific Philosophical Quarterly, 91(1): 19–37.
-   Ameriks, Karl, 1982 [2000], Kant’s Theory of Mind: An Analysis of
    the Paralogisms of Pure Reason, Oxford: Clarendon Press; second
---------------
    Social Understanding”, Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 19(1):
    107–122.
-   Bayne, Tim, 2004, “Self-Consciousness and the Unity of
    Consciousness”, The Monist, 87(2): 219–236.
-   –––, 2008, “The Phenomenology of Agency”, Philosophy Compass, 3(1):
    182–202.
-   –––, 2010, The Unity of Consciousness, Oxford: Oxford University
    Press.
-   Bealer, George, 1997, “Self-Consciousness”, Philosophical Review,
    106(1): 69–117.
-   Bennett, Jonathan, 1966, Kant’s Analytic, Cambridge: Cambridge
---------------
-   Berkeley, George, 1713, Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonus,
    edited by Jonathan Dancy, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998.
-   Bermúdez, José Luis, 1998, The Paradox of Self-Consciousness,
    Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
-   –––, 2002, “The Sources of Self-Consciousness”, Proceedings of the
    Aristotelian Society, 102: 87–107.
-   –––, 2003, Thinking Without Words, New York: Oxford University
    Press.
-   –––, 2011, “Bodily Awareness and Self-Consciousness”, in Gallagher
    2011: 157–179.
-   –––, 2012, “Memory Judgments and Immunity to Error Through
---------------
-   Bilgrami, Akeel, 2006, Self-Knowledge and Resentment, Cambridge, MA:
    Harvard University Press.
-   Billon, Alexandre, 2013, “Does Consciousness Entail Subjectivity?
    The Puzzle of Thought Insertion”, Philosophical Psychology, 26(2):
    291–314.
---------------
-   Blackburn, Simon, 1997, “Has Kant Refuted Parfit?” in Dancy 1997:
    180–201.
-   Block, Ned, 2011, “The Higher Order Approach to Consciousness Is
    Defunct”, Analysis, 71(3): 419–431.
-   Borner, Marc, Manfred Frank, and Kenneth Williford (eds.), Senses of
---------------
-   Brewer, Bill, 1995, “Bodily Awareness and the Self”, in Bermúdez,
    Marcel, & Eilan 1995: 291–309.
-   Brinkmann, Klaus, 2005, “Consciousness, Self-Consciousness, and the
    Modern Self”, History of the Modern Sciences, 18(4): 27–48.
-   Brook, Andrew, 1994, Kant and the Mind, Cambridge: Cambridge
---------------
    Macdonald 1998: 243–270.
-   –––, 2010, Origins of Objectivity, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
-   Byrne, Alex, 1997, “Some Like it HOT: Consciousness and Higher Order
    Thoughts”, Philosophical Studies, 86(2): 103–129.
-   Campbell, John, 1994, Past, Space, and Self, Cambridge, MA: MIT
---------------
-   –––, 1999b, “Schizophrenia, the Space of Reasons, and Thinking as a
    Motor Process”, The Monist, 82(4): 609–625.
-   –––, 2002, Reference and Consciousness, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
-   Cappelen, Herman and Ernie Lepore, 2007, “The Myth of Unarticulated
    Constituents”, in O’Rourke & Washington 2007: 199–214.
---------------
-   Carruthers, Peter, 1996, “Simulation and Self-Knowledge: A Defence
    of Theory Theory”, in Carruthers & Smith 1996: 22–38.
-   –––, 2000, Phenomenal Consciousness: A Naturalistic Theory,
    Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
-   –––, 2005, Consciousness: Essays from a Higher-Order Perspective,
    Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   –––, 2008, “Metacognition in Animals: A Skeptical Look”, Mind &
---------------
-   –––, 1997, Self and World, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   Castañeda, Hector Neri, 1966, “’He’: A Study in the Logic of
    Self-Consciousness”, Ratio, 8: 130–157; reprinted in Castañeda 1999:
    35–60.
-   –––, 1967, “Indicators and Quasi-Indicators”, American Philosophical
    Quarterly, 4(2): 85–100; reprinted in Castañeda 1999: 61–88.
-   –––, 1999, The Phenomeno-Logic of the I: Essays on
    Self-Consciousness, edited by James G. Hart and Tomis Kapitan,
    Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
-   Caston, Victor, 2002, “Aristotle on Consciousness”, Mind, 111(444):
    751–815.
-   Chadha, Monima, 2017, “No-Self and the Phenomenology of Agency”,
---------------
-   Cory, Therese Scarpelli, 2014, Aquinas on Human Self-Knowledge,
    Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
-   Dainton, Barry, 2000, Stream of Consciousness: Unity and Continuity
    in Conscious Experience, London: Routledge.
-   –––, 2008, The Phenomenal Self, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
---------------
    Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   de Vignemont, Frédérique and Adria J. T. Alsmith (eds.), 2017, The
    Subject’s Matter: Self-Consciousness and the Body, Cambridge, MA:
    MIT Press.
-   Dennett, Daniel, 1976, “Conditions of Personhood”, in Amélie Rorty
---------------
    Korsgaard’s Constructivism, Realism, and the Nature of Normativity”,
    Ethics, 115(4): 651–691.
-   Flanagan, Owen, 1992, Consciousness Reconsidered, Cambridge, MA: MIT
    Press.
-   Fleming, Stephen M. and Christopher D. Frith (eds.), 2014, The
---------------
-   Frank, Manfred, 1995, “Is Subjectivity a Non-Thing, an Absurdity
    [Unding]? On Some Difficulties in Naturalistic Reductions of
    Self-Consciousness”, in Karl Ameriks and Dieter Sturma (eds.), The
    Modern Subject: Conceptions of the Self in Classical German
    Philosophy, Albany: SUNY Press, pp. 177–197.
-   –––, 2004, “Fragments of a History of the Theory of
    Self-Consciousness from Descartes to Kierkegaard”, Critical
    Horizons, 5(1): 53–136.
-   Frankfurt, Harry, 1971, “Freedom of the Will and the Concept of a
---------------
-   Gallup, Gordon G. and James R. Anderson, 2020, “Self-Recognition in
    Animals: Where do we Stand 50 Years Later? Lessons from Cleaner
    Wrasse and Other Species”, Psychology of Consciousness: Theory,
    Research and Practice, 7(1): 46–58.
-   Ganeri, Jonardon, 2012a, The Self: Consciousness, Naturalism, and
    the First-Person Stance, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   –––, 2012b, The Concealed Art of the Soul: Theories of Self and
---------------
-   Garrett, Brian, 1991, “Personal Identity and Reductionism”,
    Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, 51(2): 361–373.
-   –––, 1998, Personal Identity and Self-Consciousness, London:
    Routledge.
-   Gennaro, Rocco, 1996, Consciousness and Self-Consciousness: A
    Defense of the Higher-Order Thought Theory of Consciousness,
    Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
-   ––– (ed.), 2004, Higher-Order Theories of Consciousness, Amsterdam:
    John Benjamins.
-   Gertler, Brie, 2011, Self-Knowledge, London: Routledge.
---------------
-   Haddock, Adrian, 2019, “‘I am NN’: A Reconstruction of Anscombe’s
    ‘The First Person’”, European Journal of Philosophy, 27: 959–970.
-   –––, 2022, “Anscombe and Self-Consciousness”, in Teichmann 2022, pp.
    383–396.
-   Hamilton, Andy, 1991, “Anscombian and Cartesian Scepticism”, The
---------------
-   –––, 1995, “A New Look at Personal Identity”, The Philosophical
    Quarterly, 45(180): 332–349. doi:10.2307/2219654
-   –––, 2009, “Memory and Self-Consciousness: Immunity to Error Through
    Misidentification”, Synthese, 171(3): 409–417.
-   –––, 2013, The Self in Question, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
---------------
    Miller, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1977.
-   Heinämaa, Sara, Vili Lähteenmäki, and Pauliina Remes (eds.), 2007,
    Consciousness: From Perception to Reflection in the History of
    Philosophy, Dordrecht: Springer.
-   Henrich, Dieter, 1967, “Fichte’s Original Insight”, translated by
---------------
-   Hurley, Susan, 1994, “Unity and Objectivity”, in Christopher
    Peacocke (ed.), Objectivity, Simulation and the Unity of
    Consciousness: Current Issues in the Philosophy of Mind, Oxford:
    Oxford University Press, 49–77.
-   –––, 1998, Consciousness in Action, Cambridge, MA: Harvard
    University Press.
-   –––, 2005, “The Shared Circuits Hypothesis: A Unified Functional
---------------
    Self-Awareness: Before and After Avicenna”, in Heinämaa,
    Lähteenmäki, & Remes 2007: 95–119.
-   Keller, Pierre, 1998, Kant and the Demands of Self-Consciousness,
    Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
-   Kenny, Anthony, 1979, “The First Person”, in Diamond & Teichman
---------------
-   –––, 2009, Self-Constitution: Agency, Identity, and Integrity,
    Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   Kriegel, Uriah, 2003, “Consciousness as Intransitive
    Self-Consciousness: Two Views and an Argument”, Canadian Journal of
    Philosophy, 33(1): 103–132.
-   –––, 2009, Subjective Consciousness: A Self-Representational Theory,
    Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   –––, 2012, “Self-Representationalism and the Explanatory Gap”, in
    Lui & Perry 2012: 51–75.
-   Kriegel, Uriah and Kenneth Williford (eds.), 2006,
    Self-Representational Approaches to Consciousness, Cambridge, MA:
    MIT Press.
-   Kripke, Saul A., 1982, Wittgenstein on Rules and Private Language,
    Oxford: Blackwell.
-   Lane, Timothy and Caleb Liang, 2011, “Self-Consciousness and
    Immunity”, Journal of Philosophy, 108(2): 78–99.
-   Langland-Hassan, Peter, 2015, “Introspective Misidentification”,
---------------
    Theory of Mind, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
-   Legrand, Dorothée, 2006, “The Bodily Self: The Sensori-Motor Roots
    of Pre-Reflective Self-Consciousness”, Phenomenology and the
    Cognitive Sciences, 5(1): 89–118.
-   Letheby, Chris, and Philip Gerrans, 2017, “Self Unbound: Ego
    Dissolution in Psychedelic Experience”, Neuroscience of
    Consciousness, 2017(1): 1–11.
-   Levine, Joseph, 2006, “Conscious Awareness and
    (Self-)Representation”, in Uriah Kriegel and Kenneth Williford
    (eds.), Self-Representational Approaches to Consciousness,
    Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, pp. 173–197.
-   Lewis, David, 1979, “Attitudes De Dicto and De Se”, The
---------------
    University Press, pp. 133–159.
-   Lewis, Michael, 2011, “The Origins and Uses of Self-Awareness or the
    Mental Representation of Me”, Consciousness and Cognition, 20(1):
    120–129.
-   Lewis, Michael and Jeanne Brooks-Gunn, 1979, Social Cognition and
---------------
    Amoretti and Gerhard Preyer (eds.), Triangulation: From an
    Epistemological Point of View, Heusenstamm: Ontos Verlag, pp. 69–95.
-   Lui, JeeLoo and John Perry (eds.), 2012, Consciousness and the Self:
    New Essays, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
-   Lycan, William, 1996, Consciousness and Experience, Cambridge, MA:
    MIT Press.
-   –––, 2004, “The Superiority of HOP to HOT”, in Gennaro 2004: 93–114.
---------------
    167(3): 519–540.
-   Miguens, Sofia, Gerhard Preyer, and Clara Bravo Morando (eds.),
    2016, Pre-Reflective Consciousness: Sartre and Contemporary
    Philosophy of Mind, Abingdon: Routledge.
-   Millikan, Ruth Garrett, 1990, “The Myth of the Essential Indexical”,
---------------
-   Millière, Raphaël, Robin L. Carhart-Harris, Leor Roseman,
    Fynn-Mathis Trautwein, Aviva Berkovich-Ohana, 2018, “Psychedelics,
    Meditation, and Self-Consciousness”, Frontiers in Psychology, 9:
    1475.
-   Mitchell, Jonathan, 2021, “Self-Locating Content in Visual
---------------
    Geirsson (eds.), The Routledge Handbook of Linguistic Reference, New
    York: Routledge, pp. 482–498.
-   Noë, Alva, 2002, “Is Perspectival Self-Consciousness
    Non-Conceptual?”, The Philosophical Quarterly, 52(207): 185–194.
-   Noonan, Harold, 2022, “The First Person and ‘The First Person’”, in
---------------
    Semantics: Essays on the Philosophy of John Perry, Cambridge, MA:
    MIT Press.
-   O’Shaughnessy, Brian, 2002, Consciousness and the World, Oxford:
    Clarendon Press.
-   Owens, Joseph, 1988, “The Self in Aristotle”, The Review of
    Metaphysics, 41(4): 707–722.
-   Pacherie, Elisabeth and Jean-Remy Martin, 2013, “Out of Nowhere:
    Thought Insertion, Ownership and Context-Integration”, Consciousness
    and Cognition, 22(1): 111–122.
-   Parfit, Derek, 1984, Reasons and Persons, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
-   Parnas, Josef and Louis A. Sass, 2011, “The Structure of
    Self-Consciousness in Schizophrenia”, in Gallagher 2011: 521–546.
-   Pasnau, Robert, 2002, Thomas Aquinas on Human Nature: A
    Philosophical Study of Summa Theologaie 1a 75–89, Cambridge:
---------------
    Roessler & Eilan 2003: 94–110.
-   –––, 2008, Truly Understood, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   –––, 2014, The Mirror of the World: Subjects, Consciousness, &
    Self-Consciousness, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   Penelhum, Terence, 2000, Themes in Hume. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
-   Perry, John, 1977, “Frege on Demonstratives”, The Philosophical
---------------
-   Piaget, Jean, 1937, The Construction of Reality in the Child,
    translated by Margaret Cook, New York: Basic Books, 1954.
-   Pippin, Robert, B., 2010, Hegel on Self-Consciousness: Desire and
    Death in the Phenomenology of Spirit, Princeton, NJ: Princeton
    University Press.
---------------
    Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States
    of America, 103(12): 17053–17057.
-   Powell, C. Thomas, 1990, Kant’s Theory of Self-Consciousness,
    Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   Predelli, Stefano, 1998a, “‘I Am Not Here Now’”, Analysis, 58(2):
---------------
    23(5): 615–633.
-   Rochat, Philippe and Dan Zahavi, 2011, “The Uncanny Mirror: A
    Re-Framing of Mirror Self-Experience”, Consciousness and Cognition,
    20(2): 204–213.
-   Rödl, Sebastian, 2007, Self-Consciousness, Cambridge, MA: Harvard
    University Press.
-   Roessler, Johannes, and Naomi Eilan (eds.), 2003, Agency and
---------------
    Memory-Impaired Person to Memory Theory”, Neuropsychologia, 43(7):
    989–1021.
-   Rosenthal, David, 1986, “Two Concepts of Consciousness”,
    Philosophical Studies, 49(3): 329–359.
-   –––, 2005, Consciousness and Mind, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   –––, 2012, “Awareness and Identification of Self”, in Lui & Perry
    2012: 22–50.
---------------
-   –––, 1943, Being and Nothingness: An Essay on Phenomenological
    Ontology, translated by Hazel E. Barnes, London: Routledge, 1998.
-   Schear, Joseph K., 2009, “Experience and Self-Consciousness”,
    Philosophical Studies, 144(1): 95–105.
-   Schwartz, Bennett L., 2005, “Do Nonhuman Primates have Episodic
---------------
-   –––, 1996, The First-Person Perspective and Other Essays, Cambridge:
    Cambridge University Press.
-   –––, 2012, “Personhood and Consciousness”, in Lui & Perry 2012:
    198–213.
-   Sidelle, Alan, 1991, “The Answering Machine Paradox”, Canadian
---------------
-   Stalnaker, Robert C., 2008, Our Knowledge of the Internal World, New
    York: Oxford University Press.
-   Stephens, G. Lynn and George Graham, 2000, When Self-Consciousness
    Breaks: Alien Voices and Inserted Thoughts, Cambridge, MA: MIT
    Press.
---------------
-   Stone, Jim, 1988, “Parfit and the Buddha: Why There Are No People”,
    Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, 48(3): 519–532.
-   Stone, Odyssius, 2024, “Varieties of Self-Consciousness in
    Mindfulness Meditation”, in Susi Ferrarello and Christos Hadjioannou
    (eds.), The Routledge Handbook of Phenomenology of Mindfulness,
---------------
-   –––, 2011a, The Evident Connexion: Hume on Personal Identity,
    Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   –––, 2011b, Locke on Personal Identity: Consciousness and
    Concernment, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
-   Strawson, P.F., 1959, Individuals, London: Methuen.
---------------
    Anscombe, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
-   Terrace, Herbert S. and Janet Metcalfe (eds.), 2005, The Missing
    Link in Cognition: Origins of Self-Reflective Consciousness, New
    York: Oxford University Press.
-   Thiel, Udo, 2011, The Early Modern Subject: Self-Consciousness and
    Personal Identity from Descartes to Hume, Oxford: Oxford University
    Press.
---------------
-   Tsakiris, Manos, 2011, “The Sense of Body Ownership”, in Gallagher
    2011: 180–203.
-   Tugendhat, Ernst, 1979, Self-Consciousness and Self-Determination,
    translated by Paul Stern, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1986.
-   Tulving, Endel, 1972, “Episodic and Semantic Memory”, in Endel
---------------
-   –––, 2005, “Episodic Memory and Autonoesis: Uniquely Human?” in
    Terrace & Metcalfe 2005: 3–56.
-   Tye, Michael, 1995, Ten Problems of Consciousness, Cambridge, MA:
    MIT Press.
-   Valente, Matheus, 2018, “What Is Special about Indexical
---------------
-   White, Michael J., 1979, “The First Person Pronoun: A Reply to
    Anscombe and Clarke”, Analysis, 39(3): 120–123.
-   Wider, Kathleen, 1997, The Bodily Nature of Consciousness: Sartre
    and Contemporary Philosophy of Mind, Ithaca: Cornell University
    Press.
---------------
Other Internet Resources

-   Self-Consciousness, bibliography at PhilPapers.org.
-   Self-Consciousness, entry at Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy.

Related Entries

animal: cognition | animal: consciousness | bodily awareness |
consciousness | consciousness: higher-order theories | consciousness:
seventeenth-century theories of | consciousness: unity of | indexicals |
introspection | Kant, Immanuel: view of mind and consciousness of self |
memory | mental content: nonconceptual | personal identity |
self-consciousness: phenomenological approaches to | self-knowledge
self-locating beliefs | transcendental arguments

