   #alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)

   News
     * Today's news
     * US
     * Politics
     * World
     * Tech (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + Reviews and deals
          + Audio
          + Computing
          + Gaming
          + Health
          + Home
          + Phones
          + Science
          + TVs
     * Climate change
     * Health
     * Science
     * 2024 election
     * Originals (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + The 360
     * Newsletters

   Life
     * Health (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + COVID-19
          + Fall allergies
          + Health news
          + Mental health
          + Relax
          + Sexual health
          + Studies
          + The Unwind
     * Parenting (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + Family health
          + So mini ways
     * Style and beauty (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + It Figures
          + Unapologetically
     * Horoscopes
     * Shopping (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + Buying guides
     * Food
     * Travel
     * Autos
     * Gift ideas
     * Buying guides

   Entertainment
     * Celebrity
     * TV
     * Movies
     * Music
     * How to Watch
     * Interviews
     * Videos

   Finance
     * My portfolio (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + My watchlist
     * News (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + Stock market
          + Economics
          + Earnings
          + Crypto
          + Politics
          + Biden economy
          + Personal finance
     * Markets (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + Stocks: most active
          + Stocks: gainers
          + Stocks: losers
          + Trending tickers
          + Futures
          + World indices
          + US Treasury bonds
          + Currencies
          + Crypto
          + Top ETFs
          + Top mutual funds
          + Highest open interest
          + Highest implied volatility
          + Currency converter
     * Sectors (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + Basic materials
          + Communication services
          + Consumer cyclical
          + Consumer defensive
          + Energy
          + Financial services
          + Healthcare
          + Industrials
          + Real estate
          + Technology
          + Utilities
     * Screeners (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + Watchlists
          + Equities
          + ETFs
          + Futures
          + Index
          + Mutual funds
          + Analyst rating screener
          + Technical events screener
          + Smart money screener
          + Top holdings screener
     * Personal finance (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + Credit cards
          + Balance transfer cards
          + Cash back cards
          + Rewards cards
          + Travel cards
          + Banking
          + CD rates
          + Online checking
          + High-yield savings
          + Money market
          + Mortgage
          + Home equity loan
          + HELOC
          + Personal loans
          + Student loans
          + Insurance
          + Taxes
     * Videos (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + ETF report
          + FA corner
          + Options pit
     * Crypto
     * Industries

   Sports
     * Fantasy (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + News
          + Fantasy football
          + Best Ball
          + Pro Pick 'Em
          + College Pick 'Em
          + Fantasy baseball
          + Fantasy hockey
          + Fantasy basketball
          + Download the app
     * Daily fantasy
     * NFL (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + News
          + Scores and schedules
          + Standings
          + Stats
          + Teams
          + Players
          + Drafts
          + Injuries
          + Odds
          + Super Bowl
          + GameChannel
          + Videos
     * MLB (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + News
          + Scores and schedules
          + Standings
          + Stats
          + Teams
          + Players
          + Odds
          + Videos
          + World Baseball Classic
     * NBA (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + News
          + Draft
          + Scores and schedules
          + Standings
          + Stats
          + Teams
          + Players
          + Injuries
          + Videos
          + Odds
          + Playoffs
     * NHL (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + News
          + Scores and schedules
          + Standings
          + Stats
          + Teams
          + Players
          + Odds
          + Playoffs
     * Soccer (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + News
          + Scores and schedules
          + Premier League
          + MLS
          + NWSL
          + Liga MX
          + CONCACAF League
          + Champions League
          + La Liga
          + Serie A
          + Bundesliga
          + Ligue 1
          + World Cup
     * College football (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + News
          + Scores and schedules
          + Standings
          + Rankings
          + Stats
          + Teams
     * (BUTTON) Show all (BUTTON)
          + (BUTTON)
          + MMA
          + WNBA
          + Sportsbook
          + NCAAF
          + Tennis
          + Golf
          + NASCAR
          + NCAAB
          + NCAAW
          + Boxing
          + USFL
          + Cycling
          + Motorsports
          + Olympics
          + Horse racing
          + GameChannel
          + Rivals
          + Newsletters
          + Podcasts
          + Videos
          + RSS
          + Jobs
          + Help
          + World Cup
          + More news

   New on Yahoo
     * Creators
     * Games
     * Tech

     * Terms
     * Privacy
     * Privacy & Cookie Settings
     * Feedback

US English Select edition

     * USEnglish
     * US y LATAMEspañol
     * AustraliaEnglish
     * CanadaEnglish
     * CanadaFrançais
     * DeutschlandDeutsch
     * FranceFrançais
     * 香港繁中
     * MalaysiaEnglish
     * New ZealandEnglish
     * SingaporeEnglish
     * 台灣繁中
     * UKEnglish

   © 2025 All rights reserved.
   About our ads Advertising Careers

Yahoo Home

   Yahoo Home
   Search query ____________________
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (Search)

   Select edition (BUTTON)
     * USEnglish
     * US y LATAMEspañol
     * AustraliaEnglish
     * CanadaEnglish
     * CanadaFrançais
     * DeutschlandDeutsch
     * FranceFrançais
     * 香港繁中
     * MalaysiaEnglish
     * New ZealandEnglish
     * SingaporeEnglish
     * 台灣繁中
     * UKEnglish

     * News
     * Finance
     * Sports
     * (BUTTON) More
          + News
               o Today's news
               o US
               o Politics
               o World
               o Weather
               o Climate change
               o Health
               o Science
               o 2024 election
               o Originals
               o Newsletters
          + Life
               o Health
               o Parenting
               o Style and beauty
               o Horoscopes
               o Shopping
               o Food
               o Travel
               o Autos
               o Gift ideas
               o Buying guides
          + Entertainment
               o Celebrity
               o TV
               o Movies
               o Music
               o How to watch
               o Interviews
               o Videos
          + Finance
               o My portfolio
               o Watchlists
               o Markets
               o News
               o Videos
               o Screeners
               o Personal finance
               o Crypto
               o Industries
          + Sports
               o Fantasy
               o NFL
               o NBA
               o MLB
               o NHL
               o College football
               o College basketball
               o Soccer
               o MMA
               o Yahoo Sports AM
          +
               o New on Yahoo
                    # Creators
                    # Games
                    # Tech
               o Selected edition
                 (BUTTON) USEnglish

   (BUTTON) Mail
   Sign in
     * Mail
     * News
     * Finance
     * Sports
     * Entertainment
     * Life
     * Yahoo Plus
     * More...

   (BUTTON) …

Skip navigation links

     * Skip to main content
     * Skip to sidebar

   Advertisement
   The Yodel:

Updates on New Orleans attack and Vegas blast; Meghan Markle’s Netflix return
— and more

   Get caught up on the biggest stories of the day with our newsletter.

top stories

Colossal winter storm to unleash severe weather from Plains to the
mid-Atlantic

   A massive storm is expected to bring both wintry and severe weather to
   more than a dozen states, meteorologists warn.

   Thunderstorms forecast in the South »
     *

Millie Bobby Brown is being shamed for looking 'way older' than she is
     *

1,000-pound piece of space junk falls on Kenyan village. Who owns it?
     *

Missing boy survives for 5 days eating wild fruit in lion-inhabited park
     *

Surgeon general calls for cancer warnings on alcoholic drinks
     *

First lady got the most expensive gift out of all the Bidens received from
abroad

Stories for you

     * Entertainment·Yahoo Entertainment

2025 Golden Globes: 'Emilia Pérez,' 'The Bear' lead film, TV nominations as
Nikki Glaser makes history as 1st woman solo host. What to know about the
awards show.
       The 2025 awards season kicks off with the 82nd annual Golden Globes
       on Jan. 5.
       7 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

With a trick and some tears, Notre Dame finally gets over hump in big-time
bowl game
       Irish special teams coach Marty Biagi has been through the ringer
       the past couple weeks. But his perseverance is emblematic of this
       Irish team — they don't quit, and they play full-tilt all 60
       minutes.
       7 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Kirby Smart complains about officials allowing Notre Dame's 11-man
substitution on critical Sugar Bowl play
       Notre Dame got the best of Georgia on fourth-and-1, and Kirby Smart
       was not happy.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·Yahoo Entertainment

Nikki Glaser tells stars attending the Golden Globes 'come ready to laugh.'
But don't expect any 'It Ends With Us' jokes.
       One "hot-button" topic Glaser will steer clear from is the Blake
       Lively-Justin Baldoni dispute. "I'm mad I even know his name to be
       honest with you," she told Yahoo Entertainment.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Notre Dame handles Georgia in Sugar Bowl, advances to face Penn State in
College Football Playoff semifinal
       Three teams have booked their tickets to the College Football
       Playoff semifinals. Who will be the fourth?
       1 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·Yahoo News

New Orleans truck attack: What we know as details emerge about the suspect,
the victims and the ‘ISIS-inspired’ plot
       At least 15 people have died after the attack on Bourbon Street
       early on Wednesday, officials said.
       6 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Entertainment·Yahoo Entertainment

How to watch the 'RuPaul's Drag Race' Season 17 premiere tonight: Start time,
channel and more
       The new season of Drag Race premieres on MTV on Friday, here's
       everything you need to know.
       3 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Politics·Yahoo News

What do former GOP Rep. Adam Kinzinger and the 'far left' director of 'Hot
Tub Time Machine' have in common? A lot, it turns out.
       "The Last Republican," a new documentary directed by Steve Pink,
       follows former Rep. Adam Kinzinger during his last year in Congress
       as one of two Republicans serving on the House select committee
       investigating the Jan. 6 Capitol attack.
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

NFL Pro Bowl 2025 rosters announced: 9 Ravens to represent AFC, no Patrick
Mahomes or Baker Mayfield
       The Dolphins, Saints, Jets, and Titans were the only teams to not
       have players named to either roster
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·Yahoo Celebrity

Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni's competing 'It Ends With Us' lawsuits:
Breaking down the accusations
       There have been three separate legal filings by Blake Lively and
       Justin Baldoni about their time making "It Ends With Us." Here are
       the main allegations.
       8 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Technology·Yahoo Tech

Wordle hints today for #1,294: Clues and answer for Friday, January 3
       Does today's Wordle have you stumped? Here are some hints and the
       answer.
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·Yahoo Movies

Justin Baldoni sues New York Times for $250M over Blake Lively story: A guide
to the key players involved in the 'It Ends With Us' dispute
       Blake Lively has formally filed a lawsuit against Baldoni and
       others for alleged sexual harassment while filming "It Ends With
       Us."
       8 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Lifestyle·allrecipes

I Asked 6 Chefs for the Best Chocolate Ice Cream, and the Brand They Swear by
Is 'Unmatched'
       These chefs know what makes a great scoop.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Lifestyle·Tasting Table

The Fast Food Restaurant That Still Uses Beef Tallow For Its Fries
       Pricey steakhouses often cook their meats and veggie dishes in beef
       tallow for rich, savory depth. And, so does this fast food chain.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Health·Yahoo Life Shopping

The health benefits of Dry January: What a month without alcohol could mean
for your health in 2025
       You've heard about "Dry January" — ditching alcohol for 31 days
       — but what are the potential health benefits? A registered
       dietitian breaks them down.
       11 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Health·Yahoo Life Shopping

Working out while sick: Is exercising with a cold a good idea?
       Exercising can help boost immune function, but exercising while
       sick — especially when you're experiencing specific symptoms — can
       make your illness worse. Learn when you should take it easy and
       when you should lay off your workouts completely.
       10 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Charles Barkley goes off on JJ Redick over NBA coverage comments: 'You’re
just a dead man walking'
       Barkley did not take kindly to Redick's thoughts on the job the
       league's partners are doing selling the game.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Report: Indiana QB Kurtis Rourke 'believed' to have played entire 2024 season
with re-torn right ACL
       Rourke first tore his right ACL at the end of the 2022 season while
       at Ohio and is set for revision surgery next week.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Fantasy Football: These ended up as the worst draft picks of 2024
       Kate Magdziuk identifies the worst picks in every round of 2024
       fantasy football drafts.
       9 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Anthony Edwards airs frustrations over getting double-teamed: 'I don't know
what to do, honestly'
       Edwards is shooting 39.3% over the past two weeks.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Biggest Pro Bowl snubs: Baker Mayfield and a few others should feel slighted
       Who should have made the Pro Bowl but was left out?
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Way-too-early top 50 fantasy football rankings for 2025
       With the 2024 fantasy football season in the books, Dalton Del Don
       looks ahead to next season with his early rankings.
       11 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Politics·Yahoo Finance

Why Trump is antsy about the coming debt ceiling fight
       A new debt ceiling established this week sets up a coming debate
       about averting default. The parameters of that standoff are already
       making Donald Trump unhappy.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Players who made (or broke) your 2024 fantasy football season
       After a season of analyzing players who made or broke our lineups,
       Tera Roberts looks at the full picture.
       9 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Uncrowned

6 bold wrestling predictions for 2025, ranked from most likely to the totally
outlandish
       Surprises are essential in pro wrestling. So here are some of the
       biggest and boldest we expect to see from WWE and AEW in 2025.
       7 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Parker Jones becomes social media scapegoat in Georgia's Sugar Bowl loss
       A sideline interference penalty cost Georgia 15 yards, earning
       Parker Jones instant infamy.
       3 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

MLB free agency: Corbin Burnes agrees to massive deal with Diamondbacks,
Teoscar Hernández rejoining the Dodgers
       Stay up to date with the latest from the baseball hot stove.
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Latest on Roki Sasaki’s decision, Red Sox offseason update | Baseball
Bar-B-Cast
       Jordan Shusterman and guest host Kiley McDaniel discuss the latest
       on Roki Sasaki’s free agency, the Nationals, Pirates, and Cubs
       making moves and the latest on the Red Sox offseason with guest
       Chris Cotillo.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

10 wild NBA predictions for 2025: LeBron gets traded, Wemby beats Kobe's 81 |
The Kevin O'Connor Show
       Goodbye 2024, hello 2025. With the new year only three days into
       existence, Kevin O'Connor is joined by Yahoo Sports contributor Tom
       Haberstroh to conjure up ten wild predictions for the remaining 363
       days.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Sugar Bowl preceded by moment of silence with empty seats in Superdome in
light of New Orleans terror attack
       Fewer fans appeared to attend the postponed Sugar Bowl between
       Notre Dame and Georgia on Thursday in light of the terror attack in
       New Orleans.
       3 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Jimmy Butler loudly signals he wants trade from Heat: 'I want to get my joy
back'
       Jimmy Butler isn't having fun anymore with the Heat.
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

QB Room: All the pressing offseason questions, starting with the Raiders,
Giants, Shedeur Sanders and Cam Ward
       The two teams with the clearest need at QB are no longer in
       position to just sit and draft one. Plus, the Vikings' plans, Brock
       Purdy's extension situation, Aaron Rodgers' future and more.
       16 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Browns' Myles Garrett prefers to 'mess up' Ravens' division title hopes over
winning NFL sack crown
       Garrett is tied with the Bengals' Trey Hendrickson with 14 sacks
       this season
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Boiler Upload

Quick Wrap | Purdue 81, Minnesota 61 | Smith gets to 1,000 points
       With the shot clock running out and Purdue's offense struggling,
       the ball ended up in familiar hands. With just under two seconds
       left on the shot clock, Braden Smith caught the ball four feet
       beyond the three point line above the break. Smith didn't have time
       to dribble or think about the history he was about to make.
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Tide Illustrated

Alabama transfer tracker: Updated list of Tide transfers, portal commits
       With transfer season in full swing, Alabama is set for a busy
       offseason with departures and new additions as it looks to build up
       its roster ahead of the 2025 campaign. The winter transfer portal
       will run from Dec. 9-28, with another spring window open from April
       16-25, 2025. The Tide will look to replenish some holes in its
       roster during both periods, while a few Alabama players will also
       look toward opportunities elsewhere.
       18 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Jared Goff vs. Sam Darnold: The epic QB battle no one saw coming
       Castoffs from the teams that drafted them, Goff and Darnold now
       lead their teams into one of the most consequential regular season
       games in NFL history.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Fantasy basketball: 10 bold predictions for the rest of the NBA season
       We're into 2025, ladies and gents! Dan Titus looks into his crystal
       ball to see what could happen during the rest of the fantasy
       basketball season.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Opinion·Yahoo Finance

Trump eases up on China
       Trump now opposes the TikTok ban he once tried to enact and is
       softening on China in other ways.
       7 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Business·Yahoo Finance

Tesla's 'day job' still matters even if its 2025 story is about something
more: Morning Brief
       Tesla stock fell 6% Monday after its quarterly deliveries
       disappointed investors — and showed a year-over-year decline. A
       reminder that the company's job of selling cars still matters.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

Patrick Surtain II takes over as NFL Defensive Player of the Year betting
favorite
       Patrick Surtain II is vying to be the seventh cornerback to win
       DPOY.
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·The Maize And Blue Review

Michigan DT Owen Wafle enters the transfer portal
       Michigan freshman defensive tackle Owen Wafle has entered the
       transfer portal. Wafle was a coveted recruit in the 2024 class, and
       expected to become a high level contributor for the Wolverines. He
       did not see the field in his freshman season.
       1 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

NFL Week 18 preview: Vikings-Lions DEEP dive, Bengals-Steelers &
Falcons-Panthers | Football 301
       In this episode of Football 301, Nate Tice and Charles McDonald
       dive deep into the high-stakes drama of Week 18, breaking down the
       biggest matchups across the NFL, including the highly anticipated
       showdown between the Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

‘I don’t know what targeting is’: Did a non-call cost Arizona State a playoff
game?
       Officials opted not to flag Texas for targeting at a crucial point
       in the Peach Bowl, a non-call that left many scratching their
       heads.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Entertainment·Uncrowned

WWE Raw on Netflix preview: 5 burning questions for Monday's debut on the
streaming giant
       WWE's flagship program, "WWE Raw," make its much-anticipated
       Netflix debut live on January 6.
       12 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Rivals

Three Predictions: Ohio State, Keelon Russell, Michael Fasusi
       Jeremiah Smith and the Ohio State Buckeyes look like College
       Football Playoff favorites heading into the semifinals.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Yahoo Sports

2024 Fantasy Football Award Winners
       It's time to look back at who got us here. Scott Pianowski and Andy
       Behrens hand out some fantasy football hardware as the 2024 regular
       season nears its end.
       9 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·Cosmopolitan

Sydney Sweeney Drops Jet Ski swimsuit Pic After Being Hounded by Paparazzi
       Sydney Sweeney dropped a swimsuit pic of herself on a jet ski after
       paparazzi hounded her during her day out.
       1 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Politics·dpa international

Trump calls on Britain to dismantle North Sea wind turbines
       US President-elect Donald Trump called on Friday for the United
       Kingdom to dismantle its wind turbines in the North Sea in response
       to a decision by a US oil company to leave the oil-rich region.
       "The UK is making a very big mistake. Open up the North Sea. Get
       rid of the windmills!" Trump posted on his online platform, Truth
       Social. The post included a link to Scotland's Aberdeen & Grampian
       Chamber of Commerce, which in early November detailed a decision
       taken by the Apache oil firm to exit the
       1 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·People

Jack Nicholson, 87, Seen in Rare Photo While Sharing a Holiday Hug with
Daughter Lorraine
       Lorraine shared the sweet father-daughter moment in an Instagram
       post on Jan. 2
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·WFXT

Passengers say they were put on the streets ‘like animals’ after JetBlue
flight to Boston delayed
       “This was far beyond a delay, this was sending people to the
       streets in a third-world country in the wee hours of the night and
       asking them to fend for themselves with no solutions.”
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·STYLECASTER

Angel Reese Wore a Hot New Year’s Eve Outfit and People Online Got Mad
       She appears to have deactivated her social media.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·Cosmopolitan

Just J.Lo Chilling in Aspen Wearing a String swimsuit and Fur Boots
       J.Lo dropped pics of herself wearing a string swimsuit and fur
       boots during her holiday vacation in Aspen.
       1 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Lifestyle·People

Jennifer Aniston Shares the Workout that Has 'Transformed My Body' — Plus the
Drink She Has Every Morning (Exclusive)
       The actress prioritizes her health by working out consistently and
       sipping on a special drink "first thing in the morning"
       3 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Entertainment·Variety

Diddy’s Bodyguard, Intern and Producer Speak Out in New Peacock Doc Trailer:
‘I Didn’t Want to Be Around Him Unless There Was Cameras’
       Peacock has unveiled the trailer for a new Diddy documentary in
       which his bodyguard, intern, makeup artist and producer speak out
       against the disgraced music mogul. “Honestly, I didn’t want to be
       around him unless there was cameras,” one of the people in Sean
       Combs’ inner circle says in the trailer for “Diddy: The Making …
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Politics·WWD

Melania Trump Wears Draped Versace Gown for Mar-a-Lago New Year’s Eve Party
       Donald Trump accompanied his wife in a black tuxedo.
       1 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Politics·The Daily Beast

Matt Gaetz Unveils Radical New Look During MAGA TV Debut
       Former Florida congressman Matt Gaetz debuted his eponymous show
       Thursday night on One America News Network—but much of the
       attention wasn’t on what the MAGA figure had to say. Instead, many
       viewers reacted by asking some variation of, “What happened to his
       face?” Some placed blame on the network.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·TheBlast

Wayne Osmond Dead At 73, Cause Of Death Revealed
       Best known as the brother of Marie and Donny Osmond, Wayne Osmond's
       passing on New Year's Day was confirmed by his family.
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·Associated Press

Soldier shot self in head before Cybertruck exploded outside Trump's Las
Vegas hotel, officials say
       The highly decorated Army soldier inside a Tesla Cybertruck packed
       with fireworks that exploded outside Trump International Hotel in
       Las Vegas shot himself in the head just before detonation,
       authorities said Thursday. Clark County Sheriff Kevin McMahill said
       Matthew Livelsberger, a 37-year-old Green Beret, likely planned a
       more damaging attack but the steel-sided vehicle absorbed much of
       the force from the crudely built explosive. Damage from the blast
       was mostly limited to the interior of th
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·WHERE IS THE BUZZ

Internet Divided Over Drake’s Baby Mama Sophie Brussaux’s Viral New Year’s
Eve Photo—Is She Really Hotter Than Rihanna?
       Drake’s baby mama, Sophie Brussaux, is kicking off 2025 by taking
       social media by storm. The artist and former model set the internet
       ablaze after sharing her dazzling New Year’s… The post Internet
       Divided Over Drake’s Baby Mama Sophie Brussaux’s Viral New Year’s
       Eve Photo—Is She Really Hotter Than Rihanna? appeared first on
       Where Is The Buzz | Breaking News, Entertainment, Exclusive
       Interviews & More.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·The Telegraph

Pro-Ukraine special forces soldier shot himself before Cybertruck explosion
       The driver of the Tesla Cybertruck that exploded outside Donald
       Trump’s Las Vegas hotel was a highly decorated counter-terrorism
       Green Beret soldier who had previously shown support for Ukraine.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Lifestyle·NY Post

Dear Abby: I told a horrible secret to a relative — now she’s threatening
she’ll tell my children
       Dear Abby advises a person who is trying to protect her secret from
       her children after confiding to a family member.
       3 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Science·CNN

‘Mystery volcano’ that erupted and cooled Earth in 1831 has finally been
identified
       Scientists have identified the “mystery volcano” that erupted in
       1831 and cooled Earth’s climate. They have linked it to an island
       volcano in the northwest Pacific.
       6 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Associated Press

College football turns upside down, but this final four is a collection of
the sport's big programs
       In the first round of the College Football Playoff, the teams
       seeded 5-8 all won. The moral of this story: Who knows, other than
       something doesn't totally add up when not a single one of the top
       four teams, all of which received the advantage of a first-round
       bye, advances into college football's final four. The semifinals
       are set: Next Thursday in the Orange Bowl, it will be No. 6 Penn
       State vs. No. 7 Notre Dame.
       6 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·BuzzFeed

Women Over 30 Are Sharing The Grossest "Compliment" A Man Has Ever Given To
Them, And I'm Gagging
       "You have the most beautiful eye color — it reminds me of
       diarrhea."
       7 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·Variety

Kieran Culkin Admits He Swapped Mark Ruffalo’s Prop Joint for Real Marijuana
When He Was 17: ‘I Thought This Was a Good Prank. I’m Stupid’
       Kieran Culkin has confessed. The star of “A Real Pain” and
       “Succession” admitted that he once swapped a prop joint for one
       spiked with real marijuana when he was cast in a stage production
       alongside Mark Ruffalo in 2000. “I was 17 and stupid,” Culkin said
       in a new interview with The Guardian. “I’m like, …
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Politics·NBC News

By blaming Biden for the New Orleans attack, Trump may be setting himself up
for failure
       Trump has blamed Biden for the attack in New Orleans. But the
       president-elect risks facing similar criticism if an attack happens
       while he is in the White House.
       6 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Style·WWD

JD Vance’s Wife Usha Wears Snake Dress by Retrofête for Mar-a-Lago New Year’s
Eve Party
       The vice president-elect wore a black tuxedo.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·TheBlast

Gymnast Olivia Dunne And Boyfriend Paul Skenes Narrowly Escape Terror Attack
In New Orleans
       Olivia Dunne shared pictures on Instagram showing her and boyfriend
       Paul Skenes partying in New Orleans before a deadly terror attack.
       4 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Lifestyle·People

Woman Tells Family Her Dryer Isn’t Working — and They're Shocked When They
Figure Out Why (Exclusive)
       Delaney Neal has lived by herself for two years
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Sports·Patriots Wire

Patriots pull off massive trade with No. 1 pick in 7-round 2025 NFL mock
draft
       The New England Patriots, who are currently slated to pick first
       overall in the 2025 NFL draft, find themselves at a pivota
       6 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·BuzzFeed

Women Are Sharing Why They Cheated, And I Literally Have No Words
       “Because my husband has taken all the joy out of my life, but due
       to finances, I cannot leave.”
       26 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·E! News

Vanessa Bryant Proves Daughter Capri Is Kobe Bryant’s Twin in New Pics
       Vanessa Bryant shared new clips of her holiday with her and Kobe
       Bryant’s daughters. See how much their youngest, Capri, resembles
       her late father.
       5 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·KTVI

How much snow will St. Louis get this weekend?
       A winter storm system is expected to bring up to eight inches of
       mixed precipitation to the St. Louis area, with areas north of I-70
       seeing mainly snow, areas south of metro St. Louis facing
       significant icing, and the metro area in a transition zone with
       many forms of winter precipitation in the forecast.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·The Florida Times-Union

Snow in Florida? Here's what Jacksonville meteorologists say about incoming
cold wave
       The new year is here, and that generally means colder temperatures
       — even in Jacksonville. So what can Northeast Florida residents
       expect?
       3 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·Cincinnati.com | The Enquirer

A 33-year-old steakhouse in downtown Cincinnati has permanently closed
       After opening Downtown in 1991, this steakhouse just recently
       closed.
       1 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * US·People

Loved Ones Mourn Michigan Grandparents Who Died Days Apart in Back-to-Back
Holiday Tragedies: 'Unbelievable'
       Scott Levitan and his wife, Marylou, were both killed between
       Christmas and the new year, authorities said
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Celebrity·PureWow

Simone Biles Makes Major Career Announcement
       Simone Biles is the blueprint. The G.O.A.T. of gymnastics, with an
       11-medal Olympic haul and 30 World Championship medals to her name,
       she’s been dominating the sport for over a decade. She’s competed
       in three Olympic Games—Rio, Tokyo, and Paris—and even has signature
       moves named after her (shoutout to The Biles and The Biles II).
       With a résumé this stacked, you’d think she’s done it all. But as
       of now, she just announced she's adding one more honor to her
       list:: Sports Illustrated’s 2024 Sports
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * Politics·Reuters

US Supreme Court's Thomas will not be referred to Justice Department
       (Reuters) -A judicial policymaking body on Thursday rejected a
       request by Democratic lawmakers to refer conservative U.S. Supreme
       Court Justice Clarence Thomas to the Department of Justice to
       examine claims that he failed to disclose gifts and travel provided
       by a wealthy benefactor. The secretary to the U.S. Judicial
       Conference, the federal judiciary's top policymaking body, in a
       pair of letters cited amendments Thomas had made to his annual
       financial disclosure reports that addressed several
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!
     * World·AFP

Kim Jong Un's sister seen with children in state media images
       South Korea's spy agency said Friday it was analysing rare state
       media footage showing the powerful sister of North Korean leader
       Kim Jong Un with two children -- saying they could be hers.The
       isolated North has never officially disclosed any information about
       Kim Yo Jong's marital status or children, but Seoul's spy agency
       said it was examining whether the children in the state media
       footage were hers.
       2 min read
       Thanks for your feedback!

   Next
   Something went wrong. Try again.
   Refresh Page (BUTTON)

Trending Now

   1.2025 Sugar Bowl
   2.New Orleans Attack
   3.Las Vegas Explosion
   4.Russia-Ukraine War
   5.Winter Storm Snow Forecast
   6.Us Steel News
   7.Squid Game
   8.Jaia Cruz
   9.Alcohol And Cancer
   10.Angel Reese

   Advertisement

Weather

Meulan-en-Yvelines

   (BUTTON) View your Locations
   (BUTTON) Remove from favorite locations
   (BUTTON) Detect my locationView your LocationsPlease enable location
   service for your browser
     * Enter City or Zipcode ____________________
     *

   TodayCloudy. Winds variable at 2 to 6 mph (3.2 to 9.7 kph). The
   overnight low will be 26 °F (-3.3 °C).
   40°26°
   SatMostly cloudy today with a high of 36 °F (2.2 °C) and a low of 26 °F
   (-3.3 °C). There is a 76% chance of precipitation.
   36°26°
   SunShowers today with a high of 54 °F (12.2 °C) and a low of 25 °F
   (-3.9 °C). There is a 56% chance of precipitation.
   54°25°
   MonShowers today with a high of 53 °F (11.7 °C) and a low of 36 °F (2.2
   °C). There is a 64% chance of precipitation.
   53°36°
   See more
   AccuWeather

Scoreboard

   Change Sports to display different scores[Trending  ]
   (BUTTON) Yesterday (BUTTON) Today (BUTTON) Tomorrow
     * IND
       128
       Final
       MIA
       115
     * BOS
       118
       Final
       MIN
       115
     * BKN
       113
       Final
       MIL
       110

   See more

   Advertisement

Daily Horoscope

   Change your horoscope sign[Capricorn__]

   January 3 -You've got a deep well of compassion to draw on, and now you
   need to do just that. People are in serious need! You may find one case
   that needs your attention, or you may start to think big.
   See more

   Advertisement

   ADVERTISEMENT

   (BUTTON) Close this content, you can also use the Escape key at anytime
   ADVERTISEMENT

Up next

   ADVERTISEMENT

Up next

   ADVERTISEMENT

Up next

   ADVERTISEMENT

Up next

   ADVERTISEMENT

Up next

   [p?c1=2&c2=7241469&c5=2023538075&c7=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.yahoo.com%2F&c14=
   -1]
